what up this is a patreon exclusive
podcast and the odds are it's the last
podcast I'm going to record in the year
2016 because this is New Year's Eve I am
live streaming on you now so while I
record this you may see me or hear me
react to some comments in the audience I
think that's cool because i think it
enriches the podcast it makes it a
little bit more lively and spontaneous
something spontaneously so a member
called bore town who is an example of a
vegan is joining the military we may
have them on in the future we may have a
podcast for them after it gets back from
basic training I've talked to quite a
few vegans in and out of military
service vegans and vegetarians truth be
told who talked about the difficulty
being vegan in the army it's an issue
that's come up a few times in this
channel and but he just said the
annoying thing about soy milk is that
it's hard to find it unsweetened so I
have a long list of things to talk about
in this in this podcast however
spontaneously kicking it off of this one
of the funny things that comes up in
veganism again and again you know is
when we have kind of unstated extra
requirements that we've added on to
veganism like it's not good enough that
you're vegan you also have to live up to
this standard to be a real vegan and I
mean I know some people on the internet
do that like intentionally and
consciously but they actually propose
you're not a real vegan if you buy
clothing that's made in a factory
something like that they've added
something on and they actually
articulate it they express it as part of
their philosophy um but there's also a
habit of mind you can fall into wear
without heard me I'm still sick without
really thinking it through without
really being aware of it you've added on
some extra requirements the veganism
right so like one woman at my school she
was sort of like the executive director
of my school the boss at my school in
kunming she was vegan but I remember
just spontaneously without being able to
help herself I mentioned that I was
surviving by drinking a lot of soy milk
it was true at the time all the fat in
my diet and most of the protein was
coming from soy milk
powder you buy the powdered soil mix it
up and she said to me yes but does it
have sugar added I guess it is it sugar
added Eddie you can see without really
thinking about it without thinking all
the way through you know in her mind
real vegans drank soy milk with no sugar
added and I remember saying to her man i
can't i can't read chinese that well I
said well yeah to my knowledge I've read
the package reading it in Chinese I
believe this has no sugar and I got the
package and showed it to her and she
looked at the package she was like yeah
okay like this is real so I it's funny
there were only a few other words
exchanged but I could see in her mind
real vegans drink sugar free so I mean
now maybe that's because she's aware
that you know most sugar is not vegan
most sugar is made with bone char there
are elements of animal products are used
in refining the sugar it's asher's do
with the color and texture of the sugar
it may be for that reason that she felt
vegans should avoid buying products
that's your attitude it may be out of a
health basis you don't know but I could
absolutely see in her mind this was a
test about whether or not I was a real
vegan now me God the fact that i am the
fact that i'm constantly uploading
morality lectures about veganism to
youtube this alone doesn't qualify me do
you or do you not have sugar in your
soil anyways i just mentioned I'm
coughing a little bit i'm at the end of
a long and and pretty bad illness
actually I was bedridden for a little
while I made a trip from Mancha to
really and back again between two cities
here in dehong province to home special
zone and I uploaded some photographs
from that trip if you guys don't know
I'm on an app called nice I've provided
the link to that before you can search
for it under the name one nice app and
nice is basically a competitor to
Instagram and if you go and look there
you will see some photographs from that
trip I made just between two cities
within the same area of China I've had a
lot of thinking lately I reflected this
in the pro you to this video the half
hour half hour podcast before I started
recording this podcast I've had a lot of
thoughts about how I'm going to share my
life into your head and whether or not i
should start having friends and
girlfriends and more my personal life
appearing on my Instagram which is
really nice because again Instagram is
blocked in China I've been thinking
about those things affair bed but also
more generally you know I've been
struggling with the question of how i
can share this beautiful place with you
doha itself it really doesn't show up in
photographs as well as I'd liked it to
and you know just to kick it off with
this you know very basic reflection when
you're living in a place that's famous
for being beautiful like the south of
France you know the south of France each
city in the south of France will have
maybe one the street maybe two streets
where the government has put in the
money to have palm trees to have some
beautiful beautiful flowers beautiful
gardening just one street that's named
after some army general something like
that you know and in some ways the most
amazing thing about this part of China
is that it's never just one Street here
in mancha it's the whole city streets
that are of no special importance are
covered with beautiful palm trees of
beautiful gardening just natural beauty
is is surrounding you here it's teeming
around you in a way that it's really not
in the South of France and of course the
south of France is famous for having
beautiful cities understandably so too
but in France normally you'll be looking
at one street that's named after an army
general you know it's charles de gaulle
boulevard or you know plaster the
revolution there will be some special
street that's really that beautiful in
that striking and the rest of the city
is kind of Jung
and here in the home I'm commented on
this on this photo sharing application I
commented you can only really appreciate
the beauty of this place when you
appreciate not just how beautiful it is
but how utterly normal the beauty of the
places when you appreciate the extent to
which ordinary people here take it for
granted ignore it that it just becomes
part of the background noise of daily
life the astounding beauty of the place
now along with this podcast i believe i
can upload you know at the same time a
group of photographs try to do it as a
zip file but on patreon one way or
another i'm going to share with you a
bunch of photographs of just how
beautiful this place is there's one in
particular draw attention to it's
somewhere in here but you know there's
one moment where it's just a
construction site there's a gap in the
fence on this construction thing the
construction site is not beautiful I
mean obviously it's not guard and
earning it uh and through this gap in
the fence you can see the side of the
mountains and the golden temple you see
this beautiful Vista Del Hong is like
that all the time you can be in a muddy
muddy ugly alleyway you can be in a kind
of unbelievably ugly construction site
and it's still beautiful you know it's
not just the parks it's not just the
tourist attractions you get these
strikingly beautiful vistas you know in
a gap in the fence looking onto a
construction site and what have you
that's surrounding you all the time but
anyway and i don't think i have
rose-colored glasses on yer in some ways
I'm used to this I've lived in Cambodia
I've lived in Thailand I've lived in all
these places that people consider so
beautiful and I've got to tell you dong
is more beautiful this is really
genuinely right now one of the most
beautiful place in the world and there
are no tourists here whatsoever you know
i'll also say so you know i mentioned in
my apartment tour
I am actually sorry some people are
complaining about the noise from the
microphone I'll try it out I'll try to
improve that by moving the mic to one
side some people are um change of topic
moksha is tremendously beautiful to Hong
it's tremendously beautiful and I
mentioned in the apartment tour video
that I am I do actually drink the tap
water here I boil it first but I do
drink it mancha is built on a natural
Hot Springs we have natural clean water
coming up from the coming up from the
earth at all times and there is a
beautiful beautiful swimming pool here
they're actually several I've only
visited one of them there's a beautiful
swimming pool here are larger than an
Olympic size pool that's filled with
this water from the hot springs so I'm
going to include photographs of that for
you guys on patreon also so you can see
that and of course that pool it also is
a special play area for children so I
really do I look at that swimming pool
and the swimming pool is not hot it's
not boiling hot like a hot tub but it is
hotter than a normal swimming pool and
they also have you know they have
different kind of hot tubs tide pools
they have a special swimming pool just
for children to play on and so on and
you know for a three-year-old or a
four-year-old if you go to China you're
not going to appreciate one of the
museum's you're not what a child at that
age can do and appreciate is really
limited but a child could definitely
appreciate swimming in that beautiful
warm pool filled with natural water from
Hot Springs so I hope in the year ahead
my daughter is going to get to enjoy the
natural beauty of this place this place
is not just linked to my life and my
past research it is also very strong
link to my ex-wife's research past
present and future the languages she
studies she really as an anthropologist
she's an expert in exactly this part of
the world this is the perfect location
for her it's very helpful for her that I
have a job in a base of operations here
so it makes a lot of sense for her and
my daughter to come over and start
spending time
um we will see we will see what's what's
possible into the Attic now okay
short-term and long-term thoughts about
oh yeah so guys some questions again
this is nice I like being able to
spontaneously answer some of these
questions one of the questions from
Austin Sims oh no no from art of war art
of war says why do I sometimes call the
city mancha and sometimes call it da
Hong so even on maps there's confusion
about that till Hong is really the name
of the region of the special zone and
monkey is the name of the city but
people very often call the capital city
the name of the region and you will even
see that listed on unofficial maps that
way sometimes and many people do not
know the name Mancha because the name of
the city actually did change there was
an official legal change to the name of
the city recently to go from an
artificial Chinese name to more of a
natural local sounding name and they
actually had a vote on that as I recall
they had a referendum so the city has
more than one name and that's confusing
and then the name of the region is
generally so it would be a bit like Las
Vegas legally speaking actually Las
Vegas is not really Las Vegas and it let
you know it's an area it's not really
the city there are a few different
places in the world like that we have a
name for a region pattaya thailand is
like that and actually Stanford in
California Stanford is not the name of
the city it's the name of a
census-designated place so whatever so
till hong is generally the name you will
hear used but it is true we use more
than one name for the place when I look
up this place on the map application
it's actually I think Apple maps it
gives the name as dehong not as must
shut rightly or wrongly so you do you do
see that around I get another simple
question from Austin Sims is my ex-wife
vegan is my daughter vegan so far as my
know my daughter has been vegan not just
since birth she has been vegan since
conception and so far as i know my
ex-wife of my daughter of her main
I it is possible that's changed but if
so my ex-wife has not admitted it to me
so yeah I'm in that sense I'm proud to
have raised my daughter vegan and we
went through you know Amy went through
the whole pregnancy and the early
childhood during her infancy we did a
lot of research on you know nutritional
requirements making sure the baby got
all of the vitamins required not just be
12 etc etc um okay so where did I leave
off this is more spontaneous having
these comments but also means have to
remember what I was talking about I was
talking about how beautiful the Hong is
you guys know already have had some good
news from France about that legal case
it may be that within just the next few
months I can start spending meaningful
time with my daughter again on the other
hand it may be poor timing because I'm
moving it with the court case and at the
same time I'm also going back to having
a full-time job so you know I'm not
gonna have all that flexible schedule
once that job starts compared to the
situation was in before it seems like i
have only good news about durianrider
and the court case in thailand also if
you've been watching every single one of
my videos we've now had confirmation on
that it's not just that I know that the
case is real I know that durianrider
knows that it's real so you know the
hysterical people who are claiming the
case is a is a fraud or something you
know that's become more and more of a
laughingstock and not to be taken
seriously right coming back to where I
left off comments about folic acid being
important to pregnancy yes there's
actually a long list of things you need
to be concerned about with a vegan
pregnancy there are websites out there
to help you and during that time I
remember my my wife no my ex-wife she
also took the time to put some of that
some of that information on you know
vitamins and supplements on the internet
there was just one vitamin that was
impossible to get
vegan and where we had to use one
supplement that contained an extract
from sheep's wool but you know you do
your best as a vegan and you know
obviously if the if there is absolutely
no alternative if is actually impossible
to to get a vegan medicine medication
that you need then you're going to use
an on Beekman but as I recall there was
that were there was just that one a
vitamin that was non vegan and otherwise
you manage to do everything else vegan
you know if you were example you know
DHA although it is difficult to get DHA
DHA is a supplement that only pregnant
women need to be concerned about you can
get vegan tha and we did so we went
through that whole process anyway
something you guys may or may not know
about me I have talked about it in the
internet a few times you know I'm at a
crossroads in terms of my career short
term and long term crossroads there's a
lot for me to think about what does my
life in China mean right now what does
my life in China mean for my own
long-term future and for my long term
vegan activism and all these other
things and again the sort of the first
half hour of this podcast the half hour
that's on YouTube it's already musing
about that some extent you know one of
the ideas that have bandied about again
this links back to the photos of still
home that I'm sharing along with this
podcast one of the ideas that I've
talked about pretty seriously with other
youtubers with people on the internet
with people to know me in real life I've
talked about the possibility of opening
my own vegan hotel now there's a lot to
that in terms of investment in terms of
start-up costs would you first open a
gym and then wait till you have more
money and open a hotel when you first
open a you know a small guest house that
just happens to have vegan food there
are a lot of different ways to do it now
I fold this idea goes back so long I
talked about this at length and I met
with a guy who's a real expert when i
was living in taiwan
before I moved from Taiwan to Canada and
I'm still in touch with him so I know
one guy who was a real pro in exactly
that field exactly the field of taking a
building and renovating it to work as a
guest house or small hotel it's a very
technical field of expertise and he's
here in Asia he speaks Chinese and
English and a couple other languages
he's a priceless contact to have and
he'd be very happy to come in on that
project me so that's one reason I was
already looking into that and thinking
about that several years ago it's also
something this has been mentioned maybe
a year ago my youtube channel so i'm
going to answer your question guys i am
i am reading the comments as we do this
here but i don't want to drop myself in
mid-sentence too much um it's also
something that would be such a wonderful
basis for collaboration with other
vegans if you have a small hotel you can
hold conferences you can have meetups
with other vegans and you know even some
of the really soft core silly youtube
channels about veganism you know
channels i don't watch you can see
that's part of what they've got going on
there are you know those vegans who are
based in los angeles you can see they
have a big house they have some kind of
venue where they can you know have other
people visit i don't think any of them
are doing conferences but you know
having a bricks and mortar location it
can be a very powerful thing long-term
so connected vegan activism and of
course it's also just a way to have a
job that is quietly providing vegan
propaganda obviously you have a small
hotel like that many of your customers
will not be vegans they'll be vegan soup
booked a room and then only when they
eat breakfast to the next morning do
they realize oh the breakfast has no cow
milk it only has soy milk like oh they
have cafe latte or they have cappuccino
but the cappuccino isn't made with cow
milk it's made with vegan ingredients
you'd have people who come and they say
oh you have ice cream but the ice cream
is vegan they get to try vegan ice cream
so you know on a subtle level something
like a small gym a guest house so a
small hotel guest house or a gym or
starting with one of those three and
expanding it to the others I've always
thought that was a real
powerful really positive idea and it's
enjoyable and it's a way to earn a
living and so for several years now I've
been really researching that talking
about that and uh incidentally you know
[Music]
let's not get too incidental here I did
actually enroll in sorry that's an
overstatement I spoke to and started the
applications process to get a masters
degree in Hotel Management or a master's
degree in tourism where the real focus
the degree was in hotels so that I could
formally study that business for my
long-term future in that field so while
i was in canada during the last two
years i didn't just you know i didn't
just any i didn't just think about that
in the abstract and just talk about that
with people including people are in the
industry i also looked at in a
university context in a formal setting
committing some of my time and money to
getting credentials that would really
make me more competent at that sort of
job so i have a question in the chat
from random bike trips random by strips
asks where would you at open this hotel
or guest house ad right well thanks to
the question you know obviously I have
given tremendous thought to that and the
reality is once you have a location with
that although there are the advantages
we've just been talking about you can
open the door to other vegans on YouTube
other vegan activists so I could open
the door to someone like yourself hit
like a girl is in the chat room she has
her own YouTube channel hit like a girl
could come and film herself at the gym
if I am I being against us although it's
a positive thing in those ways it also
means that one hundred and ten percent
of your time is devoted to that one spot
you are then routed to that one spot on
the map you are going nowhere you have
no free time for yourself you know 23
hours a day you were going to be inside
that business devoted to you know
worrying about everything from whether
or not the windows are clean the windows
the floors the dishes all the details of
what's going on in that
all your time and energy going through I
have no illusions about that right is
that you would be pouring your time into
that location given the background I
have in Southeast Asia the options
included Taiwan Thailand Myanmar Laos
Cambodia and here in um so when I was
thinking about day long long term this
is a nice natural segue into my next
topic here you know I thought well boy
the University here was offering me
three years of contracts they were
saying they want me to stay for three
years five years they wanted to be a
they wanted me to be a professor at this
university quite long term so I thought
wow well if I'm teaching the same
courses of the same University for three
years or five years that could be a
great basis for opening a vegan hotel
right because if you guys don't know
this way university teaching the first
year you teach a course it's a hell of a
lot of work to get started and you know
teach the course of the first time get
familiar with the curriculum etc
teaching the same course for the second
time third time fourth time is
exponentially less work you have much
more free time and also of course I mean
I would settle in here and really have
business connections and really
understand the situation to open
something like that a hostel a small
hotel or a gym or open one of the three
and then expand it with time so at the
time when I first moved here to dil Hong
and leading up to that I was quite
excited about the thought of opening a
vegan hotel here here here and now and
of over the next couple of years setting
up the basis for that guess what irony
of ironies there already is a vegan
hotel here in doha how is it possible of
all the places i went on planet Earth I
went to the one place that already has a
vegan hotel now we'll come back to just
how vegan it is or how vegan it isn't
I'm going to share some photographs with
you guys of the food and of the
restaurant itself which is
I could show some of that on camera now
I don't know if it's worth doing it's an
extremely beautiful hotel that is also
extremely underpriced because as you'd
expect the guy running it is really
running it as a charity it's not being
run as a serious business so a normal
room at this hotel is 128 qui 128
Chinese un you can figure out how much
that is and a gorgeous enormous room the
luxury room is 228 koi there are really
really extremely beautiful rooms
extremely well furnished with Chinese
wood wood furnishings wood wall fixtures
and you know they did that thing where
they combined the traditional and the
modern in a very tasteful way now the
main attraction of the hotel is that you
get to wake up and have breakfast in a
vegan restaurant so their breakfast
service which is in a fabulous extremely
well decorated room all wood fixtures
again beautiful mixture of kind of
ancient and modern aesthetic criteria
gorgeous room you can hold a conference
there etc the breakfast room which again
I assume they allow you to rent out for
weddings or meetings or what have you
really really really beautiful really
wonderful facility so you know if you
stay there you can eat dinner in the
vegan restaurant you can eat breakfast
the viewer they also serve lunch but you
know breakfast is included with the room
and they have lunch and dinner services
etc this is the attraction they do not
have a swimming pool they do not have a
gym you can actually walk from the vegan
hotel to the hotel I mentioned earlier
with the beautiful swimming pool so if
you see the photos for that you could
actually stay at the vegan hotel and
then have a short walk from there to
that gorgeous swimming facility however
there's another side to this
um my first problem with the vegan hotel
is that it's not really vegan it's
advertised as vegan almost all the food
is vegan but they have eggs why why do
they have to serve eggs just why you no
soy if a comes off as shallow or over
the harsh or what have you but it really
bothers me at first I mean they say
they're vegan and I assume they're vegan
I wonder if the owner who is doing it as
a charity I wonder if he has a Taoist
himself or if he's just trying to cater
to if he's trying to appeal to the
Daoists audience here in China because
you know a lot of Daoists specifically
in Taoism not Buddhism not the other
Asian religions not confusion
specifically within Taoism a lot of
people they don't just passively eat
eggs they regard eggs very very
positively they regard eggs symbolically
as symbolizing you know life and
vitality and what have you I wonder if
that's the reason why and most meals
there would just be one dish so they
have a you know it's an all-you-can-eat
buffet set up they would normally just
be one dish made of egg i don't think i
ever saw two options of the same meal
label thing but because of that I then
had to ask them because I assumed there
was it was really vegan as soon as I saw
they had just one dish with a gannett
now I have to go up and ask them in
Chinese its own good noodle dish have to
ask them does this or does this not a
bag in it you know and have been into
their kitchen again a sign that it's a
non-profit charity operation the kitchen
is gorgeous the kitchen is palatial
everything about the place is really
quite beautiful aesthetically and in
terms of just the size and you're just
beautiful wood beautiful stainless steel
but I've been in the kitchen and I see
this stack of eggs you know his thing
why are you doing this you know why why
would you have a vegan restaurant that
has egg they have no dairy no meat of
any kind and they're advertised as vegan
but in each meal they have one egg-based
option nothing about the place
identifies as Taoist but I really do
assume that's to reach out to to Taoism
to people who really positively want to
eat eggs but who are vegetarian
otherwise or a vegan otherwise because
only Chinese now only modern Chinese
Taoism do I know has that attitude and
by the way guys when I was in Taiwan the
people who were serious about veganism
who were very often Buddhist so Buddhist
vegans or what have you they would
insult they would speak contemptuously
about Daoists they would say insultingly
of it they would say oh egg religion so
that's that's the religion of egg eaters
is the religion of the egg people this
kind of thing because there was such a
strong positive association between that
was in the next so that's that's the
first problem the second thing is guides
so I have some photographs of the
cuisine again if you're watching this as
a podcast I I think I can have a zip
file if not somehow i'm going to upload
these photographs the cuisine is very
inventive it is very original it is not
traditional chinese cuisine it is not
traditional you nan cuisine it's not
traditional vegan food from within Union
and China I think this reflects the
eccentric tastes of the the wealthy man
who created this hotel as a charity this
is also why you'd never want to compete
with him by the way if he's running on a
not-for-profit basis how are you going
to run a for-profit hotel going for the
same niche market right very difficult
but you could you could open hotel here
because probably I mean my hotel would
be a foreign oriented till we attract
Westerners the style will be more
appealing of course I'd speak English
and I'd have staff who speak English so
already I would have mohnish
but this is getting beside the point
it's miraculous that I happen to be
living in a town that has a vegan hotel
even though it's vegan plus eggs who
knows why um so the the owner of the
hotel he makes his money in the tea
industry and oddly the tea in the hotel
is not particularly good but he he owns
a tea factory so that's really where the
money is at the money is not in owning
the farm its owning the factory that
refines and processes the tea and you
know good for him so i assume he's an
ethical vegan who owns a tea factory and
is making quite a lot of money that way
um interesting comments a random bike
trip says that these days padam pen has
vegan restaurants but they're serving
milkshakes that have dairy in them well
that's interesting though but random but
if anyone the fact that any one input on
pen knows the word vegan is already
progress because I mean when I was in
Piniella pen nobody knew the word vegan
yet you know so that's that's progress
if they're even advertising is vegan
even if it's fake vegan that's better
than people having no idea what you're
talking about when you when you say
vegan art of war comments that that T is
very important to Taoist to that is true
they tend to have an irrational
enthusiasm for fine tea and for chicken
eggs but hey at least they're not
pescetarian I guess right busy bee says
your hope your hotel idea would be
successful in Ottawa and Toronto that is
true I think all of these ideas to start
a small business as I commented in my
apartment tour video they would all make
more money in Canada and I might have
much better banking much have em pardon
me I might have much better backing from
the bank that was what I tripped over
was the phrase backing from the bank
which is crucial to running a business
with that line of credit but anyway so
this guy I may have met him and not
known it because I met a guy who seemed
to be the boss on-site but I know if
that's the manager of the actual owner
there's currently a very distinctive
style that wealthy men
connected to the government we're here
in China that relates to document number
nine and the new line policy here at new
mass line movement here in China if you
search my youtube channel you can find a
very informative video on the new mass
line movement and document number nine
in China but anyway the president of my
university was dressed in the same way
there's a certain official style of
humble clothing that wealthy and
powerful men are now wearing in China
which is very different from ten years
ago anyway it's possible I bumped into
the owner but I haven't talked to him at
any length anyway so this owner I assume
he is a bit eccentric no shade he owns a
tea factory and he decided for ethical
reasons to open this project i'll come
back to this there's more than one
ethical reason for this project making
it even more interesting um and you know
he has he subscribes to this eccentric
theory that fermented berries a kind of
fermented herbal vinegar is tremendously
good for your health okay and they sell
this herbal vinegar as some kind of cure
but oh my god this cuisine that he
serves on the one hand I respected
because it's actually edgy it is
actually innovative it is actually vegan
cuisine that has never existed in the
world before he is actually an
innovative new fresh approach to making
vegan cuisine in China it's not
imitating California it's not
traditional Chinese cuisine many many of
the dishes have had there are really new
and on an intellectual level I respect
it I hate four out of five dishes in
this place four to five dishes taste
awful to me and I love traditional you
nan food I love vegan food with in
Chinese culture vegan food in Taiwan
vegan food in Hong Kong
long and vegan food here in Union i had
a special video and that is very simple
it's very austere it's very it's very
monastic I mean it's like just
vegetables with nothing else but I did
just green vegetables with garlic and
nothing else so on the one hand I
actually like looking at it on the plate
and looking at what he's doing I have so
much respect for the innovation that's
involved in this but I actually can't
stand I heat the taste of the majority
of the foodies making and most of it is
not that from my perspective is not that
nutritious just like the green
vegetables are so heavily cooked
compared to the unit standard you get
these vegetables that have been cooked
to death and they've been cooked in this
horrible sauce that's not really for
flavor and it's not really for nutrition
or to make it more filling or something
it's this sauce that's made out of this
insane medical tincture made out of this
fermented herbal liqueur this like barry
vinegar cure for all illnesses and he's
awful and the most the most bizarre
thing of all he even puts this magical
juice this this vinegar this fruit
vinegar he puts it in the desserts so
you get like a dessert a sweet baltha or
you get a dessert brownie seriously they
have brownies but they're not flavored
with chocolate they're flavored with
this reddish purple medicinal the cure
it's completely bizarre it's completely
mind-blowing lehe weird you just you
just can't believe it's real you know
now with that haven't been said it's not
the case that all the food is terrible a
lot you guys can be looking at these
photographs and saying wow that looks
fabulous
even if you hate four out of five dishes
at an all-you-can-eat buffet it may be
that picking one out of five it may be
there's still enough there for you to
enjoy a meal and sometimes that's been
the case sometimes not sometimes I felt
very grateful so it's not but it is
currently it is the only vegan
restaurants in the city of Mancha it is
the only vegan restaurant in this part
of the Hong so I do feel grateful
towards it in a sense but there are also
times if I take the time to go out there
where I just feel like it's a waste of
my time and I've paid for this buffet
and there's like one dish I can force
myself to eat and everything else is so
awful to me so yeah i'm looking at a
dish here some of this stuff it's really
inventive like intellectually I can
respect it he's taken a traditional form
of fermented vegetables that only exists
in this part of China and you would
never get a Chinese restaurant the west
and he's like combined it with like a
mango chutney and with the yellow
version of his uh you know magical
tincture because he has a red version he
has a yellow version have tasted both of
them and by the way they do really
contain alcohol if you actually drink it
out of the bottle it's vinegar it's but
it does still contain alcohol like I had
a sip I was like oh my god like you know
i would get drunk if i tried to actually
drink this like you can call this
medicine but it's still alcohol I mean
it still contains el go um it's also
disgusting to me but anyway whether or
not it has medical benefits I don't even
wanna have an opinion baby wait some of
these dishes they're really edgy they're
really pushing boundaries they're doing
new things with traditional ingredients
but it just tastes disgusting to me and
it's also not nutritious enough for me
to force myself to eat it you know it
doesn't contain broccoli
or the type of big green vegetables that
I really value in Chinese cuisine you
know oh my god so I I have had a couple
of meals there that were ok but again
four out of five dishes I can't I you
know I can't bear and I'm vegan yo so
that's mind blowing and now by contrast
if I go to a normal traditional you nan
restaurant the local cuisine here and I
can talk them through making a vegan
version of their normal ditions I'll
love it because you're just talking
about a pile of a pile of green
vegetables cooked in a certain style
right anyway so weird really really
weird I've been thinking about opening a
vegan restaurant vegan hotel vegan
guesthouse vegan gym for so long I come
here to dong and they already have a
vegan hotel but I mean it is so
beautiful the rooms are so gorgeous that
I can still endorse the hotel and if you
if you stay there you do get a vegan
breakfast that will have one egg dish
presented which freaks me out and I
don't like it I don't like it ethically
I don't like it otherwise you can still
do that make that happen okay so slight
change of topic here again one topic
does segue into another and hello to you
guys in the chat I am I do i do see you
I am I am seeing your comments as they
pop up here so if you guys want to you
know interact with me while recording
this podcast and happy to have to do so
um I found this out in the funniest way
I did notice that many of the employees
were indigenous ethnic minorities were
local tribal people here they were not
Han Chinese ethnically and you know just
notice that surprising for this business
and when I went to check into the hotel
they it first gave me a lower price the
price is already incredibly low
um they gave me so the actual price 128
and they gave me a price of just one
hundred and then when they found out
where I worked my the university I was
teaching at they said oh no no sorry
then we have to raise the price and I
was laughing about it and joke with them
so what do you mean why would you raise
the price because I'm a university
professor at this at this other hotel
it's just it's just bizarre it's just a
very very strange thing to happen in
China and they apologized to me and of
course we're talking in Chinese they
speak absolutely no English but they
explained they have a special
relationship with the charity is
operating partly to benefit their first
nations school their indigenous peoples
school so already this really brought my
mind back to my own history with First
Nations in Canada with First Nations
University with you know Cree and a Jew
boy and tribal peoples of Canada and
projects of that kind and obviously the
millionaire guy the wealthy guy who
started this hotel his heart is in the
right place and it's a wonderful thing
to do when you think about it to say
okay they're going to start with you
know a vegan hotel and then it's not
just vegan it's a vegan hotel that
actively employs and assists and helps
the tribal indigenous people and
cooperates with that school you know
that's great that's so positive but on
the other hand the thing that makes it
ridiculous is i'm talking with the staff
at this hotel and none of them care
about veganism none of them are
interested they just regard this as a
hotel that doesn't have any meet me
because they haven't been hired for that
reason they don't have a positive
connection to the movement or even to
the the concept you know of veganism
being a positive thing so that's really
funny too I was you know making the
effort to talk to them in Chinese and
say to them you know I say off the bat
look you know I am a vegan person I'm
not just vegan because I'm staying at
this hotel you know vegan all the time
and then I will explain them you know
back in Canada I'm actually a vegan
activist I have a vegan website you know
this stuff means a lot to me you know
i'm saying probably cuz i'm thanking
them because they work in a vegan hotel
right a hotel that identifies this vegan
anyway and both what they say in reply
and the look in their eyes they're
looking you like it's as if I was
talking about I collect transformers
which I don't or yeah as if I'm talking
about the most random unrelated thing
like why are you bringing this up like
what you're vegan why are you mentioning
that I'm mentioning it because you work
at the check-in desk of a vegan hotel
okay and at one point I joked I said
look why don't you have a discount rate
for someone who's a vegan activist who's
checking in here you know because this
is a vegan hotel and I'm really envy you
know they have absolutely zero interest
in veganism and when you talk to them
about it seems like they don't even
understand the concept they don't even
really know what veganism is now I
talked about it with him under different
headings but he won so bored that's a
good job poor template the joke I
suppose are suspiciously denies
collective transformers I do not I have
no positive connection transformers just
yesterday I was joking about
transformers with Richard with vegan
gains we were it had some messages back
and forth I was joke that is what
transformers are on my mind but no i am
not a fan of transformers that was just
an example of a you know random thing to
bring up we're looking at me like why
are you talking about this you know but
I talked them about veganism at are many
different headings one was just
introducing myself trying to be a nice
guy or whatever um but another reason
was you know the eggs the first time I
noticed there was one dish with eggs in
it I had to go to them and say look why
are there eggs you know this is supposed
to be a vegan restaurant that's supposed
to be vegan hotel why do you have this
dish with eggs in it and the guy was
talking to you the first time but also
the later times they just had no idea
what I was talking about he was like
yeah right that has eggs and I was like
dude the other dishes have eggs he said
no the others don't have eggs so well
this is supposed to be vegan this whole
restaurant why do you have
just trying to talk with us my Chinese
is far from perfect but I can talk about
I can have this conversation in Chinese
every member of staff I talked about
that with had no idea what was talking
about I might as well have been talking
about collecting transformers no
comprehension no idea that somebody
would be care about that impassioned
about that you know it's easy to imagine
a business like this or charity like
this in China having all employees who
are you know religious vegans who are a
Taoist or Buddhist or what have you but
because this hotel has two mandates has
two purposes because it is helping
indigenous people and is also trying to
help veganism the two mandates conflict
they're not really compatible and you
know that relates back to this question
I've talked about so many times in my
channel about the single issue cause
really you should have two different
projects if you want to have a project
that helps native people indigenous
minorities tribal people that's one
project if you want to have a project
that supports veganism that's a separate
project and even though it's the most
wonderful thing in the world like even
in Canada that would be so wonderful to
have a you know a vegan hotel where you
have all the staff are CREE in a jib way
you have a special connection to a
school for korean ajiboye people that
has a charity you're reaching out to and
providing opportunities to create a jib
way people you know uh it does not work
because those people are working at that
restaurant for the wrong reasons they're
working in that hotel for the wrong
reasons they have the wrong interests
and from their perspective they're just
stuck working in a hotel that doesn't
have any eat meat they're stuck eating
their lunch in a shitty restaurant
that's vegetarian just because their
bosses an eccentric that was really how
they saw it you could see they were just
like oh yeah the guy who owned this
place is kind of crazy so everything's
vegan like it's so counterproductive and
of course this same hotel would be such
a positive force in people's lives
including being a positive force for the
employees if you were employing people
who wanted to be there if you
employee people were there for the right
reasons so it was a whole lot of really
meaningful reflections that came out of
my staying in this bizarre or this
surreal semi vegan hotel in China and
you know sorry like all hotels you know
they have to talk to you about smoking a
lot of people in China still smoke so I
did say in chinese when i was checking
in that i'm a nonsmoker and i also said
you know I don't drink any alcohol you
know I just mentioned it in passing and
someone which of course is not
surprising when you've already described
as someone look I'm vegan I'm a vegan
activist all these other things and so
on you know so there was another moment
that brought back so strongly the memory
of my working with you know First
Nations people in Canada back when I was
studying Korean a jib way back when I
was a student at First Nations
University there was a guy there he
stole the works that working behind the
counter at the this hotel and he you
know he is one of the native tribal
peoples here and he looks he looks like
them to some native tribal peoples here
look the same as the Chinese not all of
them have different ethnic features but
he had brown skin much browner skin than
most Chinese people he was kind of big
and fat he had tattoos and he was very
affable and friendly with me but he had
no clue about vegans we didn't care even
though he's working this weekend hotel
and he was really nice it was really
friendly but it made me burst out
laughing I mean just in his behavior in
many ways he really reminded me of kids
i knew in in canada who grew up on First
Nations reservations in so many ways and
I went outside the hotel for a minute i
forget i was doing i think i was getting
out my camera i think i was just
reaching in my bag to get out my camera
and you know he was nice to me this guy
at every point i talked to he was really
nice to me but he just did not
understand at all what I was saying them
about being a vegan activist or that
that's the reason why I'm in this hotel
and why I'm it and why
talking to him I'm interested in meeting
other vegans like imagino different my
whole life here would be different if I
could meet even one vegan by staying at
the scope give me one person who has
common interests in veganism of this
hotel whether it's a member of staff or
one of the guests I want to meet other
vegans but none of the staff at this
hotel are vegan so I went outside and I
was just messing with a magnet was
taking out i think i was taking on my
camera and he walked past me and he said
to me in the most friendly self
confident way in chinese he was like oh
are you stopping to have a smoke you
stopping up cigarette and it's just and
everything about the way he said it it
really made me laugh for a couple of
minutes there because it's the sort of
thing where I've been so honest to
somebody because it suits my purpose to
be honest in just talking in a couple
different conversations about what kind
of guy I am and why I'm here I'm a vegan
activist I don't drink I don't smoke and
he's being friendly with me but I it's
still is invisible to him who I am why
are there he regards me as a foreign
tourists who's there for a good time
who's drinking alcohol and smoking
cigarettes and you know he regards me as
someone who you know he might invite to
go have a smoke around the corner which
is what he was doing he was leaving his
post to go of a smoke in the alleyway
beside the hotel it really brought back
the memories of so many funny situations
with Korean Ojibwe with First Nations in
Canada and it brought together all these
you know weird little contradictions in
this microcosm of this this vegan hotel
and you know obviously I don't want to
be a jerk I don't want to be mean but no
I don't want to have a smoke no I don't
want to have a beer what I want is to
meet other vegan activist
I checked into this hotel hoping I meet
other people or interested in veganism
but it seems like absolutely nobody
aside from the owner cares in the
slightest Oh dig it is up so I really
laughs but I mean my answer the guy
ultimately was just no i'm not i'm not
here to smoke cigarettes um k change of
topic I mean look you know uh I've had
some related questions come in i'm gonna
i guess some community there's a no
specific order this question that came
in here on on youtube i'll just read
this question you'll see where I'm going
with this so question came in quote is
there an amount of time that you believe
a person can spend enjoying themselves
instead of participating in some kind of
humanitarian work you know working
towards political goals the stuff I talk
about my videos he says what kind of
what percentage of one's lifetime do you
believe is okay to enjoy without warrant
and criticism I'm shortening the
question a bit so you guys can imagine
why he's asking that if you've been
watching my recent videos some related
reflections recently uh you know vegan
gains had some videos up talking about
his own lack of time his own being
stressed out is you know not having time
to even make videos for YouTube and part
of his problem you know V Gaines is the
amount of time he has to spend on his
dog he acquired a dog that is part wolf
that is extremely energetic it's closer
to being a wild dog in his behaviors and
he has to spend all this time taking
care of and cleaning up after this dog
in his life so how much time he has for
activism of various kinds or even
YouTube he feels melting away so he had
some videos talking about this um
okay I might as well let's read out
another comment here so before I before
I replies there was another comment I
guess I don't need us there was there
was another comment asking basically
whether or not my stalking on YouTube
etc really is creating a basis for
people to people to start cooperating to
start engaging and meaningful activism
organization which is certainly a
question I ask myself all the time and
okay more than one things me to reflect
on here i remember when i was living in
England living in england with my wife
at the time just by coincidence these
things come and go in fashions we heard
a lot of this BS we heard a lot of this
kind of prideful boasting from mail
pickup artists mail I mean really what
it is is on the news on the radio in
newspapers you hear a lot of pop
psychology and there seems to be this
very popular British attitude very part
wise in the British Isles that men
there's a saying in England keep em keen
Trita mean there were all these bizarre
little social theories pop psychology
theories in England about how men should
keep their girlfriends interested
basically by snubbing them basically by
acting like they're too good for their
own girlfriend and part of that there
were all these theories circulating on
the internet but again this was
discussed on the radio and in newspapers
there was all this kind of crap like men
saying like you should only send your
girlfriend one text message for every
three text messages Seacole she says you
you should only give her you know two
phone calls for every five phone calls
you get for the woman there were all
these kind of bizarre theories about how
to keep your relationship fresh or
loving or meaningful or whatever for for
the men in England basically these men
trying to prove
they're better than the girlfriend I
guess basically by the man not paying
too much attention the girlfriend and
not helping her over basically not being
helpful as bizarre this debate I mean
it's not even a debate it's really just
pop psychology and me and my wife at the
time is now my ex-wife we saw a lot of
this and some of the people we knew
face-to-face talk to these terms also
about basically how much attention the
man is giving the woman how much
attention the woman is giving the man
and even sort of who is providing what
benefits how much the man helps the
woman how much the woman helps the man
and people were really theorizing about
this way so for me sorry if in case you
don't catch the segue this really is
linked to this question of being asked
how much time can a person spend
enjoying with them themselves as opposed
to how much time can they devote to the
movement how much time can they devote
to humanitarian work etc and I remember
saying to my ex-wife you know to me this
is just totally bizarre because this
whole mentality I see in England which
I'd never seen in America I'd never seen
in Canada just got maybe it exists in
America cannibals but I've never seen it
this whole mentality is based on the
idea that your problem is restricting
yourself from helping too much that your
problem is that like by nature you would
spend too much of your time too much of
your money too much of your effort doing
things to help your girlfriend in her
life or your wife in her life and that
you should restrict yourself so that you
seem more commanding or more it's
bizarre it's totally alien to me but I
remember saying we discussed this at
several points I said the reality is the
opposite the reality is even if you do
everything you possibly can do to help
your girlfriend or to help your wife it
will never be enough so you have to
start from that perspective if I'm doing
all I can to help you it's never going
to be enough but I can say honestly I
can look in your eyes and saying I am
doing all I can right
and a meaning in my relationships with
girlfriends or my wife or what have you
I have been in that position very very
often you know I mean at one point my
wife was living in China I had a job in
Thailand so you know we're traveling
back and forth to see each other and she
did need help on some things including
intellectual things helping her PhD
thesis or something and you can say I
could say honestly enough you know I am
doing all I can now she's a very tough
woman max wife it's not like she was
begging for tons of hell but sure it's
an issue comes up you know but whether
it's washing the dishes or helping
someone with their PhD thesis with their
research helping them design a research
projects because you know a lot of the
help I gave max wife was intellectual in
nature was research-based whether it's
washing the dishes or doing the
gardening or taking care of the baby or
something really more more intellectual
or related to politics or vegan activism
you should be in the position of saying
I am doing all I possibly can do and if
that's not enough for you we have a
problem it's so alien to me and so
bizarre than a man and apparently in
British culture this is a big thing that
a man would want to put himself in the
position of saying no I want my
girlfriend or wife to be making three
times as much effort as I'm making
therefore i only pay to take her out for
dinner this is like these were really
the examples being discussed in the
newspaper the idea that a man would only
pay to take the woman up for dinner once
after she's done three things for him
like this like economy eternal economy
within the relationship I think that's
really psychologically unhealthy and
evil and counterproductive and to me I
just say it's it's very very very alien
but obviously this fits into the British
mentality the British ego and I do think
a large part of the British ego unlike
the American eco a large part of the
bridge ego really seems you based on
snubbing people you're only as good as
the last person you've snubbed is really
a large part of life in
England and people there are very very
eager to insult to denigrate each other
to show who they think they are by
contrast so okay this elaborate allegory
for me comes back to this political
question would you say it's sort of come
up under a few different headings and
i'll come back to vegan gains in this
situation I think with activism and
humanitarian work simply put you want to
be in the position of saying I am doing
all that I possibly can now as I've just
talked about in the half hour prior to
this podcast all you can may be very
limited all you can do to help your wife
may be limited like again maybe you have
a job working in a submarine in the US
Navy so while you're away in a submarine
you're not doing a damn thing to help
her because you're in a submarine and
she's living somewhere else she's in a
city or she's living on the land
presumably all kinds of people have
problems with other relationship same
thing with vegan activism or
humanitarian work or what have you if
you have a job working in a submarine
working on a cruise ship very obviously
your ethical and economic commitments
are going to massively limit the amount
of a positive difference you can make
how much you can contribute how much you
contribute to the movement how much you
could you can do period but why would
you be in the position of trying to put
a percentage on it that way of trying to
limit how much you can help why wouldn't
you want to be in the position of saying
I am doing all that I can possibly do
even if that all is a very very limited
some it's very very tiny I mean like
this year a few months ago I was living
in the school and could mang and one of
the reasons why I wrote that children's
book I was looking for what positive
contribution can I make and part of
Michael positive contribution is coming
on YouTube and engaging in critique and
discussion and doing
reviews all the stuff you guys know
about and I decided okay i can write
this children's book and try to get this
children's book illustrated and then i
can say well living in China being in
these circumstances being a student may
be right now this is all I can do but I
still want to do that I still want to be
all I can be and do all I can do so I
guess it's starting from that position
not of false humility but a very
pragmatic realistic assessment of how
limited your maximum contribution can be
that you then move on to the pursuit of
that maximum contribution that's how I
perceive the answer that question and to
me in many ways the question is quite
alien if I regain custody of my daughter
which course is going to be joint
custody obviously the amount of time i
would spend taking care of my daughter
that will again massively reduce the
scope i have to engage in even youtube
or anything else i'm not going to feel
bad about that i'm going to feel
positive about doing what I can about
doing all that I can do now this relates
back to the example already mentioned of
vegan gains so what are the sacrifices
you can make what are the strategic
decisions you have to make in terms of
how you spend your time so you are
spending your time effectively in terms
of activists and politics humanitarian
work what have you well whether or not
you play video games is the decision you
can make whether or not you own a dog is
a decision you can make and there are so
many other things you don't have power
over right there's so many other things
you can't control you may have to take
care of your grandmother you may have to
take care of your parents as they get
old and need more help I'll take care of
themselves you may have to take care of
your kid
you may have to you know work in a
submarine you may have a job that's very
demanding of your time there may be so
many things you can't control or have
limited control over that restrict your
ability to engage in you know effective
activism our humanitarian work any
aspirations to make the world a better
place you have but then there are the
things you can't control the decisions
you make and this is only one of many
many reasons why I think owning a
domesticated animal owning a dog owning
a cat well I think it's not just a bad
idea in some ways I think it's actually
in a sense an immoral idea the
opportunity cost is tremendous it really
is it's a lot of time if you are walking
a dog twice a day and combing the dog
and cleaning up the dog's hair and
cleaning up the dog's poo and all this
stuff if you just walk a dog twice a day
that is a huge commitment of time seven
days a week and the the reason one type
of this vegan gains is not the only one
a lot of vegans are doing this and ya on
that human level of your personal
economy and your potential to be
effective in activism and advocacy and
change the world and supporting veganism
many vegans start off with the
assumption that their veganism they
should be spending more time rescuing
animals keeping pets I think I tell you
it's the exact opposite feeding a dead
cow to a CAD every day feeding dead
sheep to a dog every day playing with a
dog is not going to achieve progress to
the vegan movement not if you have one
dog and not if you have ten it's not and
you know if you didn't have that dog if
you didn't have all that time going into
taking care of house pets whether or not
their rescue animals whether or not
there are these other excuses then your
horizons for making a difference in the
movement they change so those are think
the strategic decisions you have to make
those are the strategic decisions that
shape what is
the maximum amount you can do so I guess
we'll my second last topic here uh I've
had several videos just lately
discussing the permanent vacation
lifestyle people dropping at a school to
pursue youtube and you guys may not have
noticed but actually there's a really
peculiar example of this in the
well-known social justice warrior vegan
youtuber called a privileged vegan so a
privilege vegan is also called marine
she for a while stopped using the name
of privilege vegan she's the name marine
and now she's back she's using the name
of privilege vegan again a privilege
vegan has only a BA she was enrolled in
an MA program in a master's program and
she actually had a video posted
explaining her decision to drop out a
for MA program and why is she dropping
out of her MA program it's to join us
here on permanent vacation on YouTube
pursuing YouTube activism or YouTube
advocacy whatever you want to say now
that is really really bizarre you know
of course it's bizarre first of all
because it's a contrast to all the other
people I've criticized who you know
we're involved in lifestyle activism and
bikinis and you know who people who have
nothing in common with a privilege vegan
politically or methodologically and yet
of course it is still fundamentally the
same thing she is not quitting she's not
dropping in for me to have a full-time
job she does she has not mentioned
having any job at all I think you know I
wish her well I don't know if she's born
rich enough that she just doesn't need a
job she is pursuing YouTube fame even if
it is YouTube fame of an explicitly
political explicitly activist form now
yeah there are some comments in the in
the comment section here about privilege
vegan being a spoiled brat yes so you
know she and I are not friends for the
sake of veganism I would be entirely
willing to talk to her again do a
podcast with our collab
with her because for the sake of
veganism IV wound up I do willing to
collaborate with freely I mean I'm
really trying to make something positive
app and even when I have significant
differences people but she's somebody
you know she doesn't like me and I think
in a sense I don't like her but this is
about this is about saving the planet
this is about saving the animals blah
blah blah so we should be able to put
those kinds of differences aside correct
me if I'm wrong and again there are some
differences you can't put aside I mean
you know remember I'm still like the
only guy on vegan YouTube to really
confront the neo-nazis and racists
within vegan YouTube you know well that
so somebody comments that she's only
doing YouTube until the next MA program
and so that is not what she says if you
actually watch her video and I don't
believe that's the case at all I think
it's a serious decisions you made so
look I'll put in a cavity here there are
many many reasons to drop out of your MA
program including just that the
professor is lousy that the program is
lousy you know there are reasons like
that where you can just say well you
know it's it's a bad program it's simple
enough reason to drop out or it's going
poorly she does not cite anything like
that though she really does cite her
decision as being because she wants to
do this YouTube thing and she wants to
build up her channel and she talked in
some technical detail oh she's trying to
attract more viewers to her channel so
it does seem like she is making in many
ways the mistakes that I've been warning
against and I think she's probably
seriously deluded as to how big the
maximum size of her audience would be um
but it's a little bit extra bizarre for
me because I am someone who has never
had the opportunity to get a masters
degree let alone a PhD I have quite a
few videos talking about that there's
one that's just titled why I don't have
a PhD parts one and two and still to
this day there are professors who are
fans of my work because I went back to
school you Vic I have one bachelor's
degree i'm getting a second bachelor's
degree i still do not have a single
option to get an MA anywhere in the
world a single positive viable option so
dropping out of an
an MA program dropping out of a master's
degree if it's a good program if it's a
decent program that is quite alien and
jarring to me given what my own struggle
struggles in life have been and given
the deplorable state of Canadian
academia the incredibly poor options
I've had um I don't know what can we
learn from example of someone like like
privileged vegan youtube this is the
real philosophical moral I want to put
on the story guys YouTube is wonderful
and powerful because it allows us to
challenge other people's opinions all
these use one example myself i think is
well i challenged a whole bunch of
people who never really thought about
what it means to castrate a dog vegans
people who are already vegans people
aren't supported animal rights and a
whole lot of people had to sit down and
really think about it holy why do
we castrate dogs why do we castrate cats
why do we on a hormonal level modify the
behaviors of these animals so that there
will be more like toys more like peth
rather than having their well behaviors
I was really successfully able to
challenge people in a way they didn't
expect to be challenged where they
didn't want to be challenged with in
veganism thanks to you that's the
positive thing about about veganism but
you know I think the negative thing
about veganism is that for people like
myself for people like privileged vegan
and me it makes it possible to live your
whole life without being challenged um I
think that you know someone like marine
someone like a privilege vegan she is in
dire need of being challenged about many
of her fundamentally ignorant
fundamentally self-righteous beliefs in
the world and that doesn't happen
through youtube it can happen in a good
university program it can happen between
professor Minh student whether it's a
master's degree program or ba it can
also just have with people you know face
to face it can happen by going to
conferences being in some kind of
Socratic dialogue with somebody you know
marine had a video are you
this is an example because to me it's
very smoking gun marine a privilege
video support me a privileged vegan she
had a video talking about living without
soap so if you guys don't remember I had
a very comedic video where I was really
ranting about how much I hate vegans who
either don't use soap or makeup
pseudoscience and excuses and myths to
make it sound like a life without soap
is superior to a life using soap this
kind of nonsense you know there's a
video from her totally uncritically
totally unscientifically talking about a
soap-free life so this kind of natural
hygiene pseudoscience crap about not
using soap you can watch don't watch it
i mean it's garbage but i'm just saying
and you know i watched that video and
whether you're looking at what she says
about soap or what she says about
politics in israel i see someone who's
tiny shred of fame on youtube is
allowing them to burrow deeper and
deeper into an echo chamber where nobody
is going to educate her nobody is going
to challenge her where she is able to
just be ever more self-confident in to
feel ever more unchallenged in you know
her assumptions about how the world
works and about questions of good and
evil right and wrong I'm not a Zionist
by the way I'm not saying that because I
uncritically support Israel however I
have a well-informed very cynical
opinion about politics in Israel and
Palestine and when I look at what she
says what is your own Palestine it is
very shameful as a lot of social justice
warriors are which you know my heart
goes out to some extent I can sympathize
some extent because I know I know the
type of propaganda she's been exposed to
but if you just think about the meaning
of the word education in terms of career
I've already talked about the fact I
think it's sad to see someone that is
destroying their career
opportunities just to come on YouTube
and play this game that I'm playing
right now but it is also really very sad
in terms of Education in terms of real
education in terms of the opportunity
for you to be challenged your beliefs
and assumption to really learn something
new to really gain a new perspective to
gain a new perspective on familiar facts
and have a jarring unexpected
confrontation with unfamiliar facts and
that happens to me that's part of my
education even though I'm in my late 30s
you know I went back to university I
already knew a lot about the history of
Laos the history of Cambodia history of
China to some extent and I go back to
University I wasn't planning to study
the history of Russia and I studied the
history of Russia Wow I'm confronted
with a new perspective that really of
course you know intersects with overlaps
with has a dynamic connection to all
those other you know historical
questions and it challenges my
assumptions it challenges my beliefs I
learn new things I gain new perspective
on all things so yeah I mean you know i
have heard marines perspective i've
heard her own explanation in her own
perspective on what she's doing and why
she's doing it and it is certainly a you
know bizarre and instructive and
memorable example of frankly the
permanent vacation lifestyle frankly
this fundamental delusion that youtube
is real activism that youtube is a real
career or that theme within the digital
vegan demi-monde is real Fame because
it's not it's none of those things none
of those things are true and valid but
what it is I mean YouTube is a way to
document your own life it is a way to
make friends and you know I do
appreciate it I do appreciate it for
what it is but it's very sad to see so
many people swept up in a sort of
illusion of what they imagine it is and
it's not and it never can't be okay so
to end this podcast which is probably
closer to two hours long if you
include the first the first 40 minutes
that are on YouTube as a separate video
and then this as a patron only podcast
yeah art of war comments we have coming
ethica this is a negative pitfall on the
internet staying in a silo of people
with interests that match your own yeah
I mean it's a it's a very strange thing
you were exposed to criticism like I get
idiotic comments on YouTube but it puts
you it puts you in a self-selecting
crowd that is almost always just going
to reinforce your own delusions of
grandeur and I see that with somebody
like Ted car I mean I think I'm the
first person that really criticized Ted
car the philosophy of Ted car right now
have maybe three videos criticizing Ted
car one of them is not exclusively the
video about dating advice I criticize
him and some other people who's going to
do that you know there's no percentage
in it nobody nobody gains anything from
engaging in that kind of critique there
is no Socratic method to it there's no
education to it you know there is no
educational value to what's going on and
people very easily perhaps even
unconsciously done intentionally just
surround them with people who reinforce
their own delusions of grandeur all
right um to end this video though this
is now New Year's Eve I'm recording this
on December 31st 2016 looking ahead to
2017 I've already mused on this to some
extent you know I remember a quotation
from a computer programmer a computer
programmer who did die relatively young
I forget if she died at 45 or 55 but
died younger than then you might expect
and the famous quote from this computer
programmer is when you're on your
deathbed nobody looks back at their life
and thinks I wish that I spent more time
sitting at my computer alone I do
basically want to make this channel less
isolated and one of the easiest ways for
me to do that hopefully we'll see if it
works is to reach out to some of you
guys who are here on patreon reach out
to people on skype yes
have more people come on to the channel
through those kinds of conversations and
podcasts but also i hope i can reach out
to some people here in china maybe
they're people who are not vegan because
there are not enough vegans for me to
talk to here in china I don't know can I
get the owner of that vegan restaurant
the owner of that vegan hotel can I get
them to come on camera maybe they're
people who don't speak English maybe
there are people who are not thinkin I
want to have other people sitting here
on camera with me I do want to make this
less of an isolated and isolating medium
for all involved I think there are
people in this chat room right now you
know who could who could come on the
channel and you know it's very funny
i'll just say only a few days ago i
thought that my resolution for 2017 was
going to be to spend less time on
youtube and to put more of my time into
language research and my career here in
china and maybe into starting a small
business here in China you know setting
up the foundation for that looking at
all those career shoes and options and
then in just a few days things changed
here including my contract for a bunch
of different reasons my perspective
changed because the facts changed the
facts the situation changed so my
perspective change and really my
perspective is now that the role the
Chinese language has in my life is very
questionable it's very dubious the role
that this job as in my life is pretty
much a dead end job although it gives me
a great opportunity to live in a
beautiful place and learn Chinese throw
all these good things about it but it
looks like this is a one-year dead-end
job in some ways a great educational
opportunity I'll definitely learn more
this one year then I would normally
learn from one year and an MA program or
PA program sure there are good things
about it but it's still a dead-end job
for me learning Chinese seems to be a
complete dead end in terms of my career
which is very sad but I can weep about
that later I can we vote that in a
separate video and you know youtube and
networking with you guys the internet is
not a dead end
that actually promises something
positive for my future so I feel like
right now my resolution for 2017 is
actually to work harder creating content
for YouTube and I'm not sure to what
extent that should be through doing
things like book reviews reading more
about what's going on in veganism maybe
even reviews of academic articles from
academic journals about veganism but I
mean the sad fact is Chinese is a dead
end this job as a dead end my university
degree is a dead end I have no clear
path in terms of my career for getting
an MA or PhD after that university
degree so when I go back to Canada I may
be working at Starbucks we're still in
that kind of really bleak career path
situation or maybe working for the
police force or joining the army etc etc
but actually I do have every reason to
put my energy my time and energy back
into YouTube even more than before and i
hope i can create a higher caliber of
intellectual content again whether
that's through book reviews or
discussions of academic papers or
through collaborations with other
channels who are producing quality
content I don't know we'll see we'll see
what we'll see what's possible but
course that's why this contrast is
someone like marine a privilege vegan is
so bizarre if I had an MA program if I
had a door open to a real career doing
meaningful research or even higher
education none of these questions would
even be asked right and it's precisely
because so many doors have been slammed
in my face because of the paucity of any
opportunity mostly because I'm a
Canadian citizen I'm a prisoner of my
passport I would have far more
opportunities over French citizen if I
were a German citizen if I were an
American citizen all those countries
offer more educational career
opportunities to Canada even England for
a British citizen out of many many more
opportunities but I don't these are the
cards I was dealt and in some ways
they're wonderful and some ways I
advantages and in some ways I have
disadvantages but in many ways my career
situation and even you know my legal
situation so on is backed me into a
corner
where you know YouTube is the best bet
of God so I hope you'll stick with me
here on patreon I hope you'll see the
next chapter that comes in my life and
in a real sense my resolution for 2017
is to put even more effort and energy
and originality into brainstorming how I
can make more out of this opportunity
for this YouTube channel that at the end
of the day is a crossroads for vegans to
meet other vegans for people to make
connections that can lead to real world
activism even though I do not regard
YouTube as a form of activism in itself
hit me up